#!/usr/local/bin/perl -w

use 5.10.0;
use utf8;

use lib 'lib';
use PGXN::Manager::Maint;
exit PGXN::Manager::Maint->go;

=head1 Name

pgxn_maint - Sync the PGXN API server to a PGXN mirror

=head1 Usage

  pgxn_maint [OPTIONS] TASK

=head1 Description

This program handles various maintenance tasks that periodically come up, such
as a need to regenerate stats files or to reindex a distribution. To use it,
just specify the name of the task to execute and any required arguments.

=head1 Options

  -E --env      ENV      Specify the environment in which to run.
  -a --admin    NICK     PGXN admin username.
     --expires  INTERVAL Postgres interval for password reset expiration.
     --reason   REASON   Reason for a password reset.
     --base-url URL      Base URL for PGXN::Manager.
  -V --verbose           Incremental verbosity to STDOUT.
  -h --help              Print a usage statement and exit.
  -m --man               Print the complete documentation and exit.
  -v --version           Print the version number and exit.

=head1 Maintenance Tasks

=head3 C<update-stats>

  pgxn_maint update-stats

Updates all the system-wide stats files from the database. The stats files are
JSON and their location is defined by the C<stats> URI template in the PGXN
Manager configuration file. Currently, they include:

=over

=item F<dist.json>

=item F<extension.json>

=item F<user.json>

=item F<tag.json>

=item F<summary.json>

=back

=head3 C<update-users>

  pgxn_maint update-users;

Updates the JSON files for all users in the database. The location of the
files is defined by the C<users> URI template in the PGXN Manager
configuration file.

=head3 C<reindex>

  pgxn_maint reindex pair 0.1.1
  pgxn_maint reindex /tmp/pair-0.1.1.zip

Reindexes one or more releases of distributions. Specify paths to archive
files or distribution name and version pairs. Most useful if you need to
reindex a specific version of a distribution or three, like so:

  pgxn_maint reindex pair 0.1.1 pair 0.1.2 /tmp/pgTAP-0.25.0.zip

If you need to reindex all versions of a given distribution, or all
distributions (yikes!), use C<reindex-all>, instead.

=head3 C<reindex-all>

  pgxn_maint reindex-all pair pgTAP
  pgxn_maint reindex-all

Reindexes all releases of the named distributions. If no arguments are
specified, it reindexes every distribution in the system. That's not to be
undertaken lightly if you have a lot of distributions. If you need to update
only a few, pass their names. If you need to reindex only specific versions of
a distribution, use C<reindex> instead.

=head3 C<reset-password>

  pgxn_maint reset-password --admin theory --reason 'You requested it' kamala
  pgxn_maint reset-password -a theory --expires '1 week' kamala fred ginger joe

Resets the passwords for one or more users by setting the password to a random
string and then sending the user an email so they can enter a new password.
Uses these options:

=over

=item C<--admin>

The nickname of the admin user resetting the password. This user must exist in
the database and be an admin user. Defaults to the system username.

=item C<--expires>

A timespan expressed in
L<PostgreSQL interval format|https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/datatype-datetime.html#DATATYPE-INTERVAL-INPUT>
defining how long the reset token will be good for. The default is 2 days.

=item C<--reason>

A reason for the password reset. If not set, the user will be given no reason
in the email.

=item C<--base-url>

The base URL used for the reset link in email. Defaults to
C<https://manager.pgxn.org>.

=back

=head1 To-Do

=over

=item *

Add C<update-mirrors> task.

=item *

Add C<init-mirror> task.

=back

=head1 Author

David E. Wheeler <david@justatheory.com>

=head1 Copyright and License

Copyright (c) 2011-2024 David E. Wheeler.

This module is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the L<PostgreSQL License|https://www.opensource.org/licenses/postgresql>.

Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
documentation for any purpose, without fee, and without a written agreement is
hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph
and the following two paragraphs appear in all copies.

In no event shall David E. Wheeler be liable to any party for direct,
indirect, special, incidental, or consequential damages, including lost
profits, arising out of the use of this software and its documentation, even
if David E. Wheeler has been advised of the possibility of such damage.

David E. Wheeler specifically disclaims any warranties, including, but not
limited to, the implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a
particular purpose. The software provided hereunder is on an "as is" basis,
and David E. Wheeler has no obligations to provide maintenance, support,
updates, enhancements, or modifications.

=cut
